# Wastefree
We designed an app called Wastefree to help reduce food waste and implement strategies to effectively use what is identified as excessive food. The reason we decided to go down this route, in terms of the problem we choose, is the unfortunate prevalence of it in our society.
Food waste is far too common in our daily lives generally speaking and according to the UN Environment Programme’s Food Waste Index Report
in the most recent calendar year, just over 1 billion tons of food went to waste around the world (Statistic Reference: https://news.un.org/en/story/2024/03/1148036#:~:text=The%20UN%20Environment%20Programme%E2%80%99s%20Food%20Waste%20Index%20Report,overall%20at%20retail%2C%20food%20service%2C%20and%20household%20levels.). Households in particular have a tendency
to forget about or leave food sitting long over it's shelf life, which contributes to the trashing of many edible goods as a whole. Hence,
we developed an application intended to help users stay up-to-date with all the food in their respective pantry, by using receipt data to
determine how to deal with foods based on factors such as unit economics, expiration dates, and meal implementations. Our goal is to not
only help people use their hard earned money to make the best of the foods they purchase, but to also help the environment thrive so that
the planet trends in the right direction in terms of ecological conditions. Some of the technologies or tools that we used in the process include: Kivy (framework), Python (programming language), SQLite Database (database), bcrypt (password hashing), mindee (optical character recognition). As part of our application, we offer a variety of user-friendly options to interact with and utilize our system. For example, we have a receipt scanner, which takes the information from an uploaded receipt to simplify the categorization process for any food items in an efficient and convenient manner. Our interface allows for users to go into the platform and manually add/remove items accordingly as well if they see a reason to do so as such. There is an email notification system that helps users stay on track by delivering an email to their inbox, notifying them about a product's nearby expiry date (within 3 days) respectively. Because of our aim to reduce food waste, we figured it would be more interesting to find a purpose for the food people are having leftover, and we addressed that by implementing a means for users to receive customized recipes based on the specific ingredients that they are looking for dishes for. Ultimately, we want this app to be a strong medium to help the planet and help the people as it regards food, or more generally speaking, resource availability for us all in the long run.